---
title: Form follows function
author: Cathy Dutton
layout: post
category: post
date: 2017-03-07
---


Form should follow function, i.e an object or digital thing should work seemlesly before attention is paid for nthe asthetics.

Designing for hapines leans more towards asthetics, to form emotional atachements.

People do not notice things that just work, which is a good thing but includesd no emotion.

"At a basic level, this means the aesthetics are important. Universal principles of beauty, like the Golden Ratio, the Rule of Thirds, and principles of proximity, alignment, contrast, and repetition inform our innate sense of whether something is beautiful or not. Universal design elements, like saturated hues, harmonious sounds, smiling faces, symmetrical objects, rounded shapes, attractive people also contribute to positive affect. As we move from the design of mostly visual experiences to more sensory experience, this might also mean warmth, sweet tastes, or a soft touch. "

"Delight can serve a higher purpose by introducing moments of care or a hint of personalization, but its nature is transitory. Delightful details are very much a part of the experience we have while we interact, and that’s where it can go sometimes go wrong"

"The problem comes when we think about starting at the bottom and working our way up. Delight comes at the end of the design process, the finishing touches. Emotion is prioritized last even though it may be what matters most of all. So emotion becomes a superficial layer, or is put off entirely in the rush to get a product to market. "


Adsding emotional exra nice to haves at the end of the proc ess when function has been acomplished can look and feel fake.

Emotion has a higher chance of going worng, facebook memories example fromn the book designing for crisis.

Humor is not universal

" A lot of delightful details try to be funny, but can come across as unsympathetic or insulting. "

"Humor is not only subjective but it’s also contextual."
